onboarding/accounts.md, before:

# Accounts

To request an account for most of these services, ask on Slack \#accounts and tag @alexfoias. He will either create one or direct you to where to get the account created.

## Accounts Overview

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Account</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>GitHub</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">See <a href="https://neuropoly.gitbook.io/neuropoly-lab/onboarding/accounts#github">Accounts: GitHub</a> below</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Slack</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">See <a href="https://neuropoly.gitbook.io/neuropoly-lab/onboarding/accounts#slack">Accounts: Slack</a> below</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Zoom</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">No account is necessary. For (most) lab meetings, we use <a href="https://polymtl-ca.zoom.us/j/81029425251?pwd=NytHVHN4YVlvQWdiUC9nSm5TdVlhUT09">this link</a>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Google Groups</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">The group doubles as a mailing list: <a href="mailto:neuropoly@googlegroups.com">neuropoly@googlegroups.com</a>,
        archived at <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/neuropoly">https://groups.google.com/g/neuropoly</a>.
        Event announcements go out to this list.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>CAS (Central Authentication Service)</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Usually, this will be provisioned at the same time and with the same username
          and password as GRAMES, but they are not otherwise linked.</p>
        <p>To access the VPN (<a href="http://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseaux/acces-securise-rvp-ou-vpn">http://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseaux/acces-securise-rvp-ou-vpn</a>)</p>
        <p>To access the HR/payroll/tax system at <a href="https://safirh.polymtl.ca/">https://safirh.polymtl.ca/</a>.</p>
        <p>To manage where your @polymtl.ca forwarding address, unless you have an
          email account.</p>
        <p>If you have wifi-access, to access eduroam. (<a href="https://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseau-sans-fil">https://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseau-sans-fil</a>).</p>
        <p>To access <a href="https://moodle.polymtl.ca/">https://moodle.polymtl.ca/</a>.</p>
        <p>To change your password: <a href="https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php">https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php</a>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Email Account</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>If you have been given a full <code>@polymtl.ca</code> email account. Your
          username is your email address &#x201C;<a href="mailto:your.name@polymtl.ca">your.name@polymtl.ca</a>&#x201D;
          and your password is the same as for CAS.
          <br />
        </p>
        <p>Use the webmail at either:</p>
        <p><a href="https://zimbra.polymtl.ca/">https://zimbra.polymtl.ca/</a> (employees)</p>
        <p><a href="https://www.imp.polymtl.ca/login.php">https://www.imp.polymtl.ca/</a> (students)
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>For a phone/desktop app:</p>
        <p>Your incoming (IMAP) mail server is: &#x201C;zimbra.polymtl.ca&#x201D;.</p>
        <p>Your outgoing (SMTP) mail server is: &#x201C;smtp.polymtl.ca&#x201D;.
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>And <a href="https://share.polymtl.ca/alfresco/service/api/path/content;cm:content/workspace/SpacesStore/Company%20Home/Sites/service-informatique-web/documentLibrary/Courrier_electronique/Zimbra-ActiveSync.pdf?a=true&amp;guest=true">here</a> are
          the IT department&#x2019;s instructions on configuring your email client.
          <br
          />To change your password: <a href="https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php">https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php</a>&#x200B;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>GRAMES domain</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To access computing infrastructure, like servers and lab workstations.</p>
        <p>To change your password: use <code>&lt;GRAMES_PASSWORD&gt;</code> from a
          machine on the domain:</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><code>user@laptop $ ssh &lt;GRAMES_USERNAME&gt;@joplin.neuro.polymtl.ca</code>
        </p>
        <p><code>&lt;GRAMES_USERNAME&gt;@joplin $ &lt;GRAMES_PASSWORD&gt;</code>
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>GRAMES passwords expire every few months.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>git</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To access internal datasets on git+ssh://data.neuro.polymtl.ca.</p>
        <p>&#x200B;<a href="https://github.com/neuropoly/data-management/blob/master/internal-server.md">https://github.com/neuropoly/data-management/blob/master/internal-server.md</a>
        </p>
        <p>Access is by ssh key, not by a password.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Campus Access</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To get access to campus, you will need to have an appointment booked for
          you with <a href="https://www.polymtl.ca/surete/horaire-et-acces">https://www.polymtl.ca/surete/horaire-et-acces</a> to
          have a photo taken and a card printed.</p>
        <p><b>Special COVID rules</b>: see #covid-19 on Slack. Follow the training
          there and then get yourself signed up with S&#xFB;ret&#xE9; by Julien Cohen-Adad.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## GitHub

You will need a personal GitHub account. If you want to separate your **NeuroPoly** work from your personal work, make a separate GitHub account. 

You should be added to [https://github.com/orgs/neuropoly/](https://github.com/orgs/neuropoly/) by an admin.

You may also be added to: ​

* [https://github.com/ivadomed​](https://github.com/ivadomed​)
* [https://github.com/orgs/spinalcordtoolbox​](https://github.com/orgs/spinalcordtoolbox​) ​
* [https://github.com/shimming-toolbox](https://github.com/shimming-toolbox)

You may also be added to certain private repositories one-by-one depending your what tasks you take on, though we try to minimize this by doing most of our work in the open.

To facilitate assignment and addition to repositories, please add your Github account in the table below:

| Name \(sorted **FIRST NAME** alphabetically\) | Github Account |
| :--- | :--- |
| Ainsleigh Hill | [@ahill187](https://github.com/ahill187) |
| Alexandre D'Astous | [@po09i](https://github.com/po09i) |
| Alexandru Foias | [@alexfoias](https://github.com/alexfoias) |
| Andreanne Lemay | [@andreanne-lemay](https://github.com/andreanne-lemay) |
| Armand Collin | hermancollin |
| Charley Gros | [@charleygros](https://github.com/charleygros) |
| Daniel Papp | @dpapp86 |
| Emmanuel Edward Ntiri | [@entiri](https://github.com/entiri) |
| Etienne Bergeron | [@etiennebergeron](https://github.com/etiennebergeron) |
| Eva Alonso Ortiz | [@evaalonsoortiz](https://github.com/evaalonsoortiz) |
| Gaspard Cereza | [@gaspardcereza](https://github.com/gaspardcereza) |
| Hanna Ma | [@cakester](https://github.com/cakester) |
| Julien Cohen-Adad | [@jcohenadad](https://github.com/jcohenadad) |
| Kevin Bérard | [@KevinBerard](https://github.com/KevinBerard) |
| Konstantinos Nasiotis | [@mpompolas](https://github.com/mpompolas) |
| Marie-Hélène Bourget | [@mariehbourget](https://github.com/mariehbourget) |
| Mathieu Boudreau | [@mathieuboudreau](https://github.com/mathieuboudreau) |
| Naga Karthik | [@naga-karthik](https://github.com/naga-karthik) |
| Paul Bautin | [@PaulBautin](https://github.com/PaulBautin) |
| Ryan Topfer | [@rtopfer](https://github.com/rtopfer) |
| Sandrine Bédard | [@sandrinebedard](https://github.com/sandrinebedard) |
| Taowa Rosetwig | [@taowa](https://github.com/taowa) |
| Uzay Macar | [@uzaymacar](https://github.com/uzaymacar) |
| Vasudev Sharma | [@vs74](https://github.com/vasudev-sharma) |
| Yang Ding | [@dyt811](https://github.com/dyt811) |
| Yuan Wang | [@konantian](https://github.com/konantian) |

## Slack

[https://neuropoly.slack.com](https://neuropoly.slack.com), the daily chat app, and way to connect with the team. You will get an invite to your email address to get you started. A quick-start guide to Slack can be found [here](https://slack.com/intl/en-ca/help/articles/360059928654-How-to-use-Slack--your-quick-start-guide).

You should start out in

* [\#welcome](https://app.slack.com/client/T034UD4QN/C01JK28C494)
* \#general
* \#random
* \#coffeebreak

Most projects have specific channels:

* \#axondeepseg
* \#sct\_dev
* \#ivado-internal
* \#qmrlab\_general
* \#database\_mri and \#database\_histo
* \#shimming-toolbox
* \#spine-generic

Depending on your role, you may want to join some of these optional skill-sharing channels:

* \#dev
* \#deeplearning
* \#bids

Commit message:

add a line to ease people into the accounts page

onboarding/accounts.md, after:

# Accounts

To get started, please go through this list to determine which accounts you'll need.

To request an account for most of these services, ask on Slack \#accounts and tag @alexfoias. He will either create one or direct you to where to get the account created.

## Accounts Overview

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Account</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>GitHub</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">See <a href="https://neuropoly.gitbook.io/neuropoly-lab/onboarding/accounts#github">Accounts: GitHub</a> below</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Slack</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">See <a href="https://neuropoly.gitbook.io/neuropoly-lab/onboarding/accounts#slack">Accounts: Slack</a> below</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Zoom</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">No account is necessary. For (most) lab meetings, we use <a href="https://polymtl-ca.zoom.us/j/81029425251?pwd=NytHVHN4YVlvQWdiUC9nSm5TdVlhUT09">this link</a>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Google Groups</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">The group doubles as a mailing list: <a href="mailto:neuropoly@googlegroups.com">neuropoly@googlegroups.com</a>,
        archived at <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/neuropoly">https://groups.google.com/g/neuropoly</a>.
        Event announcements go out to this list.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>CAS (Central Authentication Service)</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Usually, this will be provisioned at the same time and with the same username
          and password as GRAMES, but they are not otherwise linked.</p>
        <p>To access the VPN (<a href="http://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseaux/acces-securise-rvp-ou-vpn">http://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseaux/acces-securise-rvp-ou-vpn</a>)</p>
        <p>To access the HR/payroll/tax system at <a href="https://safirh.polymtl.ca/">https://safirh.polymtl.ca/</a>.</p>
        <p>To manage where your @polymtl.ca forwarding address, unless you have an
          email account.</p>
        <p>If you have wifi-access, to access eduroam. (<a href="https://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseau-sans-fil">https://www.polymtl.ca/si/reseau-sans-fil</a>).</p>
        <p>To access <a href="https://moodle.polymtl.ca/">https://moodle.polymtl.ca/</a>.</p>
        <p>To change your password: <a href="https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php">https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php</a>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Email Account</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>If you have been given a full <code>@polymtl.ca</code> email account. Your
          username is your email address &#x201C;<a href="mailto:your.name@polymtl.ca">your.name@polymtl.ca</a>&#x201D;
          and your password is the same as for CAS.
          <br />
        </p>
        <p>Use the webmail at either:</p>
        <p><a href="https://zimbra.polymtl.ca/">https://zimbra.polymtl.ca/</a> (employees)</p>
        <p><a href="https://www.imp.polymtl.ca/login.php">https://www.imp.polymtl.ca/</a> (students)
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>For a phone/desktop app:</p>
        <p>Your incoming (IMAP) mail server is: &#x201C;zimbra.polymtl.ca&#x201D;.</p>
        <p>Your outgoing (SMTP) mail server is: &#x201C;smtp.polymtl.ca&#x201D;.
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>And <a href="https://share.polymtl.ca/alfresco/service/api/path/content;cm:content/workspace/SpacesStore/Company%20Home/Sites/service-informatique-web/documentLibrary/Courrier_electronique/Zimbra-ActiveSync.pdf?a=true&amp;guest=true">here</a> are
          the IT department&#x2019;s instructions on configuring your email client.
          <br
          />To change your password: <a href="https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php">https://codes.si.polymtl.ca/gestion/index.php</a>&#x200B;</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>GRAMES domain</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To access computing infrastructure, like servers and lab workstations.</p>
        <p>To change your password: use <code>&lt;GRAMES_PASSWORD&gt;</code> from a
          machine on the domain:</p>
        <p></p>
        <p><code>user@laptop $ ssh &lt;GRAMES_USERNAME&gt;@joplin.neuro.polymtl.ca</code>
        </p>
        <p><code>&lt;GRAMES_USERNAME&gt;@joplin $ &lt;GRAMES_PASSWORD&gt;</code>
          <br
          />
        </p>
        <p>GRAMES passwords expire every few months.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>git</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To access internal datasets on git+ssh://data.neuro.polymtl.ca.</p>
        <p>&#x200B;<a href="https://github.com/neuropoly/data-management/blob/master/internal-server.md">https://github.com/neuropoly/data-management/blob/master/internal-server.md</a>
        </p>
        <p>Access is by ssh key, not by a password.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left"><b>Campus Access</b>
      </td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>To get access to campus, you will need to have an appointment booked for
          you with <a href="https://www.polymtl.ca/surete/horaire-et-acces">https://www.polymtl.ca/surete/horaire-et-acces</a> to
          have a photo taken and a card printed.</p>
        <p><b>Special COVID rules</b>: see #covid-19 on Slack. Follow the training
          there and then get yourself signed up with S&#xFB;ret&#xE9; by Julien Cohen-Adad.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## GitHub

You will need a personal GitHub account. If you want to separate your **NeuroPoly** work from your personal work, make a separate GitHub account. 

You should be added to [https://github.com/orgs/neuropoly/](https://github.com/orgs/neuropoly/) by an admin.

You may also be added to: ​

* [https://github.com/ivadomed​](https://github.com/ivadomed​)
* [https://github.com/orgs/spinalcordtoolbox​](https://github.com/orgs/spinalcordtoolbox​) ​
* [https://github.com/shimming-toolbox](https://github.com/shimming-toolbox)

You may also be added to certain private repositories one-by-one depending your what tasks you take on, though we try to minimize this by doing most of our work in the open.

To facilitate assignment and addition to repositories, please add your Github account in the table below:

| Name \(sorted **FIRST NAME** alphabetically\) | Github Account |
| :--- | :--- |
| Ainsleigh Hill | [@ahill187](https://github.com/ahill187) |
| Alexandre D'Astous | [@po09i](https://github.com/po09i) |
| Alexandru Foias | [@alexfoias](https://github.com/alexfoias) |
| Andreanne Lemay | [@andreanne-lemay](https://github.com/andreanne-lemay) |
| Armand Collin | hermancollin |
| Charley Gros | [@charleygros](https://github.com/charleygros) |
| Daniel Papp | @dpapp86 |
| Emmanuel Edward Ntiri | [@entiri](https://github.com/entiri) |
| Etienne Bergeron | [@etiennebergeron](https://github.com/etiennebergeron) |
| Eva Alonso Ortiz | [@evaalonsoortiz](https://github.com/evaalonsoortiz) |
| Gaspard Cereza | [@gaspardcereza](https://github.com/gaspardcereza) |
| Hanna Ma | [@cakester](https://github.com/cakester) |
| Julien Cohen-Adad | [@jcohenadad](https://github.com/jcohenadad) |
| Kevin Bérard | [@KevinBerard](https://github.com/KevinBerard) |
| Konstantinos Nasiotis | [@mpompolas](https://github.com/mpompolas) |
| Marie-Hélène Bourget | [@mariehbourget](https://github.com/mariehbourget) |
| Mathieu Boudreau | [@mathieuboudreau](https://github.com/mathieuboudreau) |
| Naga Karthik | [@naga-karthik](https://github.com/naga-karthik) |
| Paul Bautin | [@PaulBautin](https://github.com/PaulBautin) |
| Ryan Topfer | [@rtopfer](https://github.com/rtopfer) |
| Sandrine Bédard | [@sandrinebedard](https://github.com/sandrinebedard) |
| Taowa Rosetwig | [@taowa](https://github.com/taowa) |
| Uzay Macar | [@uzaymacar](https://github.com/uzaymacar) |
| Vasudev Sharma | [@vs74](https://github.com/vasudev-sharma) |
| Yang Ding | [@dyt811](https://github.com/dyt811) |
| Yuan Wang | [@konantian](https://github.com/konantian) |

## Slack

[https://neuropoly.slack.com](https://neuropoly.slack.com), the daily chat app, and way to connect with the team. You will get an invite to your email address to get you started. A quick-start guide to Slack can be found [here](https://slack.com/intl/en-ca/help/articles/360059928654-How-to-use-Slack--your-quick-start-guide).

You should start out in

* [\#welcome](https://app.slack.com/client/T034UD4QN/C01JK28C494)
* \#general
* \#random
* \#coffeebreak

Most projects have specific channels:

* \#axondeepseg
* \#sct\_dev
* \#ivado-internal
* \#qmrlab\_general
* \#database\_mri and \#database\_histo
* \#shimming-toolbox
* \#spine-generic

Depending on your role, you may want to join some of these optional skill-sharing channels:

* \#dev
* \#deeplearning
* \#bids
